At this point, we understand the high level flow of distributed version control system.
Let's take a closer look at the gate workflow.
This lecture is pretty important because we will go over the core gate commands that you will use throughout
the course as well as your real world projects.
For simplicity, we are just going to take one developer.
So the left part where there is local repository, it actually looks like this.
So everything on the left of the dotted line is in the user's local machine.
So there are three distinct areas.
First is workspace.
So workspace you can think of as the local folder where the user is creating or modifying the code in
this case, file one.
Then we have this index or staging area where the changes need to be staged.
As the name suggests, the staging area will closely mimic the local repository.
This will become clear in a minute and then we have the local repository.
Once you are done changing the file, you run this command git add name of the file.
Once you run this command, the file will be added to the index or staging area.
So at this point the file one is staged.
Once you are ready to move this file to local repository, you will run the commit command, get commit
name of the file and then minus M and then a comment.
This comment is quite important because in your audit tracking log comments for each change will be
displayed.
Once this git commit command is executed, the file will be moved to local repository.
And finally, to move the file to the remote repository, you run a push command such as git push and
that will move the file from the local repository to GitHub.
Now note that even though this file has been now moved to remote repository, the staging area still
has the file.
As we said, the name staging should mimic the production as much as possible, since the local repository
and remote repository both has the file, so does the staging area.
So let's say this user now modifies file one, adds file two and file three.
So when the user runs, get add file 15253.
Alternatively, you can run git add minus a that means all that will stage all new modified and deleted
files.
I'm going to come to this deleted part in a minute.
So once this comment is run, the staging area will have the modified file one, file two and file three,
and then the user runs git commit file one file to file three minus m added new feature one.
Alternatively you can just run git commit minus M added new feature one.
In this case all the change file will be picked up.
So once this command is run, the changes will be moved from the staging to the local repository.
And finally, when you run git push, all the changes will be moved to the remote repository.
Now let's say you removed file three from your local workspace, then you run git add file one or get
add dash here even though you are saying git add file one.
But since the file one is removed from the workspace by executing this command, that will actually
remove the file from the staging area.
And furthermore, if you run git commit minus M and then a comment that will remove the file from the
local repository.
And then when you run git push that will remove it from the remote repository.
There are other ways to remove files rather than doing through git add.
But keep this in mind.
You might get this asked in your interview because this is kind of a trick question.
Also, each commit will have their separate ID full snapshot along with details for audit.
We are going to take a detailed look at the audit log when we do the demo next, there's another way
to add files to the local repository skipping the index or staging area.
You can run git commit dash a dash m and then a comment or git come a dash am that will skip the staging
area and the file will be added directly to the local repository.
However, this is not recommended.
All right, let's jump into our very first git demo.